README.md, before:

# DMS Frontend

A Kubernetes-ready FastAPI microservice that fronts the Data Moving Service (DMS). The frontend accepts user task
requests, persists metadata in Redis, forwards work to the `dms_scheduler`, and exposes rich lifecycle management APIs for end
users and operators.

## Table of contents
- [Architecture overview](#architecture-overview)
- [Repository layout](#repository-layout)
- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Configuration](#configuration)
- [Running the service](#running-the-service)
- [API reference](#api-reference)
- [Usage examples](#usage-examples)
- [Testing](#testing)

## Architecture overview
The service is event driven and composed of the following layers:

- **FastAPI application** (`app/main.py`) mounts three routers: user-facing routes, operator-only routes guarded by an
  `X-Operator-Token` header, and a help endpoint. 
- **Task service** (`app/services/tasks.py`) centralises business logic for creating, listing, cancelling, and cleaning up tasks
  while enforcing service/user scoping rules. 
- **Task repository** (`app/services/repository.py`) abstracts persistence; use Redis in production or an in-memory store for
  testing/development. 
- **Event processor** (`app/services/event_processor.py`) handles asynchronous fan-out to the scheduler using a configurable
  pool of worker coroutines. 
- **Scheduler client** (`app/services/scheduler.py`) issues HTTP calls to the `dms_scheduler` `/task` and `/cancel` endpoints
  using URLs from configuration. 
- **Service container** (`app/services_container.py`) wires the above components together, manages Redis connections, and
  configures logging suitable for Kubernetes (JSON structured output via `app/core/logging.py`). 

### Request lifecycle
1. A REST call hits the FastAPI router and is validated by the relevant Pydantic response models. 
2. The `TaskService` persists/updates task records through the repository and publishes an event to the background processor. 
3. Worker coroutines in the `TaskEventProcessor` dequeue events, call the scheduler client, and update status/log entries. 
4. Task state is queryable via Redis-backed repository methods, ensuring horizontally scalable reads in the Kubernetes cluster. 

## Repository layout
```
app/
  api/                # FastAPI routers, dependencies, and security utilities
  core/               # Configuration, logging, and event definitions
  services/           # Task service, repositories, scheduler client, event processor
  services_container.py
cli/
  main.py             # Typer CLI entry point ("dms-frontend" console script)
tests/
  test_api.py         # Async API tests with an in-memory store and stub scheduler
```

## Prerequisites
- Python 3.11+
- Redis cluster (write: `haproxy-redis.redis.svc.cluster.local:6379`, read: `haproxy-redis.redis.svc.cluster.local:6380`) or the
  in-memory store for local development
- Access to the `dms_scheduler` service inside the Kubernetes cluster

## Installation
1. Clone the repository and create a virtual environment.
2. Install the service together with development extras:
   ```bash
   pip install -e .[dev]
   ```
3. (Optional) If running locally without Redis, export `DMS_USE_IN_MEMORY_STORE=true` before starting the API.

## Configuration
All configuration comes from environment variables with the `DMS_` prefix, provided by `app/core/config.py`. 

| Variable | Default | Purpose |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `DMS_APP_NAME` | `dms-frontend` | Service name reported in metadata |
| `DMS_API_PREFIX` | `/api/v1` | Versioned API root |
| `DMS_REDIS_WRITE_URL` | `redis://haproxy-redis.redis.svc.cluster.local:6379/0` | Redis writer endpoint |
| `DMS_REDIS_READ_URL` | `redis://haproxy-redis.redis.svc.cluster.local:6380/0` | Redis reader endpoint |
| `DMS_SCHEDULER_BASE_URL` | `http://dms-scheduler` | Base URL for the downstream scheduler |
| `DMS_SCHEDULER_TASK_ENDPOINT` | `/task` | Relative submission path |
| `DMS_SCHEDULER_CANCEL_ENDPOINT` | `/cancel` | Relative cancellation path |
| `DMS_OPERATOR_TOKEN` | `changeme` | Token required in the `X-Operator-Token` header |
| `DMS_EVENT_WORKER_COUNT` | `4` | Number of background event workers |
| `DMS_REQUEST_TIMEOUT_SECONDS` | `10.0` | Scheduler client request timeout |
| `DMS_LOG_LEVEL` | `INFO` | Application log level |
| `DMS_LOG_JSON` | `true` | Emit JSON logs (set `false` for local prettiness) |
| `DMS_CLI_DEFAULT_HOST` | `0.0.0.0` | CLI `serve` host |
| `DMS_CLI_DEFAULT_PORT` | `8000` | CLI `serve` port |
| `DMS_CLI_RELOAD` | `false` | Enable autoreload in development |
| `DMS_USE_IN_MEMORY_STORE` | `false` | Switch to the in-memory repository |

Use `dms-frontend show-config` to print the effective configuration at runtime. 

## Running the service
### Via the CLI
The package exposes a `dms-frontend` console script:
```bash
dms-frontend serve --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8000
```
The command launches Uvicorn with settings pulled from the environment. Add `--reload` for local hot reloading. 

### Directly with Uvicorn
```bash
uvicorn app.main:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8000
```

In Kubernetes deployments the JSON logger writes to stdout/stderr so that the platform can aggregate logs. 

## API reference
All paths are rooted at `/api/v1` by default.

| Method | Path | Description | Auth |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| GET | `/help` | API overview and endpoint listing | None |
| GET | `/services/{service}/users/{user_id}/tasks` | List a user's tasks for a service | None |
| POST | `/services/{service}/users/{user_id}/tasks` | Submit a new task; query parameters become task inputs | None |
| GET | `/services/{service}/tasks/{task_id}?user_id=` | Fetch task status scoped to the user | None |
| GET | `/services/{service}/tasks/{task_id}/logs?user_id=` | Fetch task logs scoped to the user | None |
| POST | `/services/{service}/tasks/{task_id}/cancel?user_id=` | Request task cancellation | None |
| DELETE | `/services/{service}/tasks/{task_id}?user_id=` | Delete task metadata and logs (user-scoped) | None |
| GET | `/admin/tasks` | List all tasks across services | `X-Operator-Token` header |
| GET | `/admin/services/{service}/tasks` | List tasks for a specific service | `X-Operator-Token` header |
| POST | `/admin/tasks/{task_id}/cancel` | Cancel any task | `X-Operator-Token` header |
| DELETE | `/admin/tasks/{task_id}` | Cleanup task metadata/logs | `X-Operator-Token` header |

The `/help` response mirrors this table and is available at `/api/v1/help`. 

## Usage examples
Assuming the service is running locally on port 8000:

```bash
# Submit a synchronous task for user "alice"
curl -X POST "http://localhost:8000/api/v1/services/sync/users/alice/tasks?input=value"

# List user tasks
curl "http://localhost:8000/api/v1/services/sync/users/alice/tasks"

# Cancel a task
task_id="<task-id>"
curl -X POST "http://localhost:8000/api/v1/services/sync/tasks/${task_id}/cancel" \
  --data "" --get --data-urlencode "user_id=alice"

# Operator listing with token
token="$(printenv DMS_OPERATOR_TOKEN)"
curl "http://localhost:8000/api/v1/admin/tasks" -H "X-Operator-Token: ${token}"
```

## Testing
Automated tests rely on the in-memory repository and a stub scheduler. To run them:
```bash
pytest
```
The suite exercises task submission, cancellation, and operator authentication flows defined in `tests/test_api.py`.

Commit message:

Enforce TTL on Redis task data

README.md, after:

# DMS Frontend

A Kubernetes-ready FastAPI microservice that fronts the Data Moving Service (DMS). The frontend accepts user task
requests, persists metadata in Redis, forwards work to the `dms_scheduler`, and exposes rich lifecycle management APIs for end
users and operators.

## Table of contents
- [Architecture overview](#architecture-overview)
- [Repository layout](#repository-layout)
- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Configuration](#configuration)
- [Running the service](#running-the-service)
- [API reference](#api-reference)
- [Usage examples](#usage-examples)
- [Testing](#testing)

## Architecture overview
The service is event driven and composed of the following layers:

- **FastAPI application** (`app/main.py`) mounts three routers: user-facing routes, operator-only routes guarded by an
  `X-Operator-Token` header, and a help endpoint. 
- **Task service** (`app/services/tasks.py`) centralises business logic for creating, listing, cancelling, and cleaning up tasks
  while enforcing service/user scoping rules. 
- **Task repository** (`app/services/repository.py`) abstracts persistence; use Redis in production or an in-memory store for
  testing/development. 
- **Event processor** (`app/services/event_processor.py`) handles asynchronous fan-out to the scheduler using a configurable
  pool of worker coroutines. 
- **Scheduler client** (`app/services/scheduler.py`) issues HTTP calls to the `dms_scheduler` `/task` and `/cancel` endpoints
  using URLs from configuration. 
- **Service container** (`app/services_container.py`) wires the above components together, manages Redis connections, and
  configures logging suitable for Kubernetes (JSON structured output via `app/core/logging.py`). 

### Request lifecycle
1. A REST call hits the FastAPI router and is validated by the relevant Pydantic response models. 
2. The `TaskService` persists/updates task records through the repository and publishes an event to the background processor. 
3. Worker coroutines in the `TaskEventProcessor` dequeue events, call the scheduler client, and update status/log entries. 
4. Task state is queryable via Redis-backed repository methods, ensuring horizontally scalable reads in the Kubernetes cluster. 

## Repository layout
```
app/
  api/                # FastAPI routers, dependencies, and security utilities
  core/               # Configuration, logging, and event definitions
  services/           # Task service, repositories, scheduler client, event processor
  services_container.py
cli/
  main.py             # Typer CLI entry point ("dms-frontend" console script)
tests/
  test_api.py         # Async API tests with an in-memory store and stub scheduler
```

## Prerequisites
- Python 3.11+
- Redis cluster (write: `haproxy-redis.redis.svc.cluster.local:6379`, read: `haproxy-redis.redis.svc.cluster.local:6380`) or the
  in-memory store for local development
- Access to the `dms_scheduler` service inside the Kubernetes cluster

## Installation
1. Clone the repository and create a virtual environment.
2. Install the service together with development extras:
   ```bash
   pip install -e .[dev]
   ```
3. (Optional) If running locally without Redis, export `DMS_USE_IN_MEMORY_STORE=true` before starting the API.

## Configuration
All configuration comes from environment variables with the `DMS_` prefix, provided by `app/core/config.py`. 

| Variable | Default | Purpose |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `DMS_APP_NAME` | `dms-frontend` | Service name reported in metadata |
| `DMS_API_PREFIX` | `/api/v1` | Versioned API root |
| `DMS_REDIS_WRITE_URL` | `redis://haproxy-redis.redis.svc.cluster.local:6379/0` | Redis writer endpoint |
| `DMS_REDIS_READ_URL` | `redis://haproxy-redis.redis.svc.cluster.local:6380/0` | Redis reader endpoint |
| `DMS_REDIS_TASK_TTL_SECONDS` | `7776000` | Expiry (in seconds) applied to task metadata and indexes |
| `DMS_SCHEDULER_BASE_URL` | `http://dms-scheduler` | Base URL for the downstream scheduler |
| `DMS_SCHEDULER_TASK_ENDPOINT` | `/task` | Relative submission path |
| `DMS_SCHEDULER_CANCEL_ENDPOINT` | `/cancel` | Relative cancellation path |
| `DMS_OPERATOR_TOKEN` | `changeme` | Token required in the `X-Operator-Token` header |
| `DMS_EVENT_WORKER_COUNT` | `4` | Number of background event workers |
| `DMS_REQUEST_TIMEOUT_SECONDS` | `10.0` | Scheduler client request timeout |
| `DMS_LOG_LEVEL` | `INFO` | Application log level |
| `DMS_LOG_JSON` | `true` | Emit JSON logs (set `false` for local prettiness) |
| `DMS_CLI_DEFAULT_HOST` | `0.0.0.0` | CLI `serve` host |
| `DMS_CLI_DEFAULT_PORT` | `8000` | CLI `serve` port |
| `DMS_CLI_RELOAD` | `false` | Enable autoreload in development |
| `DMS_USE_IN_MEMORY_STORE` | `false` | Switch to the in-memory repository |

Use `dms-frontend show-config` to print the effective configuration at runtime. 

## Running the service
### Via the CLI
The package exposes a `dms-frontend` console script:
```bash
dms-frontend serve --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8000
```
The command launches Uvicorn with settings pulled from the environment. Add `--reload` for local hot reloading. 

### Directly with Uvicorn
```bash
uvicorn app.main:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8000
```

In Kubernetes deployments the JSON logger writes to stdout/stderr so that the platform can aggregate logs. 

## API reference
All paths are rooted at `/api/v1` by default.

| Method | Path | Description | Auth |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| GET | `/help` | API overview and endpoint listing | None |
| GET | `/services/{service}/users/{user_id}/tasks` | List a user's tasks for a service | None |
| POST | `/services/{service}/users/{user_id}/tasks` | Submit a new task; query parameters become task inputs | None |
| GET | `/services/{service}/tasks/{task_id}?user_id=` | Fetch task status scoped to the user | None |
| GET | `/services/{service}/tasks/{task_id}/logs?user_id=` | Fetch task logs scoped to the user | None |
| POST | `/services/{service}/tasks/{task_id}/cancel?user_id=` | Request task cancellation | None |
| DELETE | `/services/{service}/tasks/{task_id}?user_id=` | Delete task metadata and logs (user-scoped) | None |
| GET | `/admin/tasks` | List all tasks across services | `X-Operator-Token` header |
| GET | `/admin/services/{service}/tasks` | List tasks for a specific service | `X-Operator-Token` header |
| POST | `/admin/tasks/{task_id}/cancel` | Cancel any task | `X-Operator-Token` header |
| DELETE | `/admin/tasks/{task_id}` | Cleanup task metadata/logs | `X-Operator-Token` header |

The `/help` response mirrors this table and is available at `/api/v1/help`. 

## Usage examples
Assuming the service is running locally on port 8000:

```bash
# Submit a synchronous task for user "alice"
curl -X POST "http://localhost:8000/api/v1/services/sync/users/alice/tasks?input=value"

# List user tasks
curl "http://localhost:8000/api/v1/services/sync/users/alice/tasks"

# Cancel a task
task_id="<task-id>"
curl -X POST "http://localhost:8000/api/v1/services/sync/tasks/${task_id}/cancel" \
  --data "" --get --data-urlencode "user_id=alice"

# Operator listing with token
token="$(printenv DMS_OPERATOR_TOKEN)"
curl "http://localhost:8000/api/v1/admin/tasks" -H "X-Operator-Token: ${token}"
```

## Testing
Automated tests rely on the in-memory repository and a stub scheduler. To run them:
```bash
pytest
```
The suite exercises task submission, cancellation, and operator authentication flows defined in `tests/test_api.py`.
